Our new information service would help students and academic advisors design education curriculums in information and technology by providing them data about the latest trends and patterns of the information and technology job market. This service responds to the walled nature of the current system, where students have to research trending jobs on multiple fronts and then find and pursue offered courses that align with trending jobs. This service also responds to the quickly changing landscape of information and technology jobs, in which new types of work are being invented rapidly as technology changes. 

Our system will bring these two information domains onto one canvas, where students will be able to choose courses based on jobs that are trending or in which they are interested. Our Information service is supported by two streams of data:

Employment and Job projections: https://data.bls.gov/projections/occupationProj

Courses offered by iSchool at UMD: https://app.testudo.umd.edu/soc/202101/INST

This service would be provided in the form of easy-to-understand Tableau reports, designed for easy use by academic advisors and students in planning courses. A user could examine the data from both sides to answer the questions, “How does this course relate to the trending job market?” and “How could I prepare for this trending job with the courses being offered?” Online accessibility would be the best way to put this service into use because it would be accessible to a majority of students on campus. If they have internet access, they have access to this tool. 
We expect the outcome of this information service to help students better understand the job outlook and trending jobs related to their education curriculum and educational interests, and therefore make better-informed choices. In addition to the benefit of steering students toward courses related to trending jobs, it can also pinpoint occupations with high compensations, as well as roles that are steadily declining.
